So what we're going
to do now is we're
going to talk about
the real workhorse
of the
PhraseMatchSpliterator class,
which is the trySplit method.
And as you'll see, this
method is the first time
we've really covered it.
We've covered the
constructor before.
We covered the fields before.
We covered tryAdvance before.
But we've never covered
trySplit before.
And this is really, like
I said, the workhorse that
does all of the heavy
lifting to split things up.
So the streams framework
will use trySplit
to try to partition a
work of Shakespeare, which
is stored in a
string, into chunks
of that work of Shakespeare
that can be searched in parallel
in the common ForkJoinPool.
And if you think back
to the discussions
we did about the internals
of parallel streams
where I talked about how
the AbstractTask compute
method worked,
remember AbstractTask
had this method that was used
to basically deal with tasks.
So if you took a
look at that method,
you could see where it
called trySplit repeatedly
until it finally returned null.
Well, that would be the
context in which the trySplit
method would be called that
we're about to examine.
Now, it turns out, as
I alluded to before,
that doing a parallel
Spliterator for a work
of Shakespeare is very tricky.
And so for that
reason, we've actually
decomposed the
trySplit method up
into a number of helper
methods to just make it easier
to keep track of things.
Honestly, the other reason
was to make everything fit
onto one slide.
But I think it also
helps to understand
the overall algorithm better if
you see the pieces, as opposed
to just a lot of code.
Note that there is no
synchronization needed
in any of these methods.
That's because the framework,
the streams framework,
always calls trySplit
from a single thread.
In fact, you saw that earlier
in that abstract task discussion
that we did when we talked about
parallel streams partitioning
and how it mapped onto
the common ForkJoinPool.
So if you go back and
rewatch those videos,
you'll see how it
works under the hood.
So the high level here is
what trySplit is going to do.
What it's going to
do is if the input is
below some minimum
size, which is
we saw before was set
in the constructor,
it'll just return null.
Otherwise, it tries
to split the input up
into two relatively
even-sized chunks.
And you'll see that "relatively"
is the keyword here.
It returns a Spliterator
for the left chunk,
and then it updates itself
to become the right chunk.
And we'll see that it tries to
do this as evenly as it can,
but we have to be careful.
Because if we do it so
evenly that it ends up
splitting the input
across a phrase
that we're searching for,
obviously it's no good at all.
Now, the thing to
remember about splitting
is you don't have
to be perfectly even
in order for a Spliterator
to run efficiently.
You can be marginally
even, which
is what we're going
to be doing here.
So here's the actual code
for the trySplit method.
And let's go ahead
and walk through it.
The actual code in the source
code repository on GitHub
is very heavily commented.
So I also recommend
you go and read that,
because it may give you some
additional insights, as well
as the discussions were
about to have right now.
So the first thing
we do is we check
to see if the input
substring that we've got,
which could be the
original string altogether,
or as we split things up, it'll
become smaller and smaller--
whether or not that length
of the current string
we're working on, or substring
that we're working on
after a split, is less than or
equal to the min split size.
If it is less than or equal
to the min split size,
that means we're done.
And we're just going to
bail out and return null.
OK, so far so good.
So let's assume for
sake of argument,
we haven't reached
that point yet.
The next thing
we're going to do is
we're going to define
a couple of values.
We're going to find
something called startPos,
or startPosition, and we'll
talk about that in a second.
And then we also have
something called splitPos.
And the splitPos,
or splitPosition,
is our initial guess at where
to make the split in the string.
So let's assume for
sake of argument
that we had Hamlet
as our input string.
And if we take the length
of the text of Hamlet
and divide it by
2 just for kicks,
let's assume that we'd end up
somehow with a potential split
at the location I show here.
So potentially, we would
split between the word "of"
and the word "wit."
Now, of course, that
would be a horrible split
if we're trying to look
for the phrase "brevity
is the soul of wit."
But we got to start somewhere.
So that's what we do.
That's our initial guess.
The next thing
we're going to do is
we're going to call a helper
method called computeStartPos
for start position.
And that's going to be
our initial guess at where
to start the search.
And of course,
what we need to do
is figure out how big
the search phrase is.
And then we can
compute where to start
the search by subtracting that
from where we do the split.
And we'll look at the logic
for computeStartPosition
here in a second.
So here's the
computeStartPosition.
This identifies the
position to start
determining if a phrase
spans the split position.
So the whole purpose of this is
to see if we would accidentally
end up straddling or
spanning the split
position with our phrase
and then readjust the start
position accordingly to make
it not be in the wrong place.
So here's how it
is going to work.
The first thing
we're going to do
is we're going to figure out
the length of the phrase we're
searching for.
So "brevity is
the soul of wit--"
that turns out to be a
certain number of characters,
probably something in the order
of 24 or something like that.
I'm not sure.
I'd have to count them.
So we figure out how
long the phrase is.
And then we take
the splitPosition,
which we passed as
a parameter, and we
subtract the phrase length.
So that's going to give
us the startPosition.
And this is, again, the
notional startPosition.
And then we do a
little sanity checking.
If that startPosition is less
than 0 for some strange reason,
or if the phrase length is
greater than the splitPosition,
if the phrase is too
long for example,
then we just bail
out and say, there's
no point in searching
for the phrase.
It's too big for this segment.
We aren't going to find a match.
Otherwise, we return
our best guess
for the computed startPosition.
So that comes back
as this method,
and that sets startPosition.
So now we have
startPosition set,
and we have splitPosition set.
The next thing
we're going to do is
we're going to pass
startPosition and splitPosition
into yet another helper method
called tryToUpdateSplitPosition
or tryToUpdateSplitPos.
What this will do is this
will update the splitPosition
if the phrase spans the
initial splitPosition.
So by the time this
method returns, we'll
have the actual split position.
And as you can see here,
what's going to happen
is it's going to come back.
And it's going to say, that
original splitPosition was
a really bad idea because we'd
end up straddling phrases.
So instead, we're
going to return
a different
splitPosition, and we're
going to use that which should
allow us to get a proper split.
So here is the
tryToUpdateSplitPos method.
And the whole
purpose of this thing
is to avoid splitting a
string across a phrase.
Now, again, you
can see that if we
were to start with
this startPosition
and that splitPosition, that's
exactly what we would do.
So this method's
got to compensate
for that to come back
with a better result.
What we're going to do is we're
going to set an internal helper
variable called endPos to be
the very end of the input that
could match the pattern.
And the way we do that is we
take the splitPos and then
we add the length of
the pattern as a string.
So that tells you
how far we have
to look in order to see
where a match could occur.
And we need to do this in order
to be able to make the pattern
matcher work properly.
We then got to make sure
that the phrase isn't longer
than the input
string which again
is sort of another sanity
check, if you will.
And assuming it's all
copacetic, we continue.
Otherwise, we bail out
and return minus 1,
which is a flag to the caller
that something went wrong
and stop trying to search
this particular segment.
What we then do as
we go ahead and we
create ourselves a subSequence
of the input string.
And you can see here
that this subSequence
goes from the startPosition
to the endPosition.
That's going to be
the entire region
we're going to try to match.
And so what we're
going to do then
is we're going to
take that substring
from the current startPosition
to the current endPosition,
and we're going
to basically call
the matcher method
on the pattern
to see if we get a match
within that string.
OK, still so far so good.
We get back a
mPattern.matcher for that.
And then we go ahead and
see if there's a match.
And if there is a match
in that region, that says,
hey, we'd better be prepared
to update the startPosition.
And so if we find a match,
if mPattern.match or pm.find
returns true, we're going
to go ahead and reset
the splitPosition to
be the startPosition
plus wherever the match occurred
plus the length of the pattern
itself.
And all those things
get added together.
And then we go ahead
and return that value
as the final splitPosition.
So finally, when
this method returns,
we now have figured
out where we want
to split our input in such
a way that we don't end up
with things trying to
straddle boundaries.
So the final method
here is going
to be a call to
split index, which
is going to create and return
a new Spliterator to cover
the left-hand side.
And then we're going
to, as we'll see,
we're going to update
the current Spliterator
to handle the right-hand side.
So splitInput is going to create
and return a new Spliterator,
and here's how it works.
This, by the way,
is the reason why
we're using character
sequences because we need to be
able to do these sub-sequences.
And subSequences are very
efficient with character
sequences, but much more costly
with strings because they
end up making data copies.
But we don't want
to make a data copy.
We just want to split it.
So what we do is we
take the current input
and we make a sub-sequence from
the beginning to the splitPos.
And we're going to call
that character sequence lhs,
for left-hand side or
left-hand Spliterator.
Let's call it left-hand side
for the discussion here.
And so that'll cover everything
from the beginning of the input
up to the splitPosition,
so [INAUDIBLE] up to
including [CHUCKLES]
the "t" in "wit."
We then turn around and
update the right-hand side.
That's us.
That's our current string.
So we're going to take
the current string,
and we're going to make a
new subSequence from splitPos
to the end of the
input, mInput.length.
And that is then
overwritten into mInput,
so that becomes the new mInput.
So we're basically
updating ourselves
by creating a new
reference that references
this new subSequence that
has all the right-hand side.
And that's, by the way,
why mInput could not
be defined as final
in the trySplit
because we were going to update
it in trySplit or in splitInput
in this case.
We then take that
input, which is
now as a subSequence of the
original input, basically
about half of it, and
then we make a new pattern
matcher for that.
So mPhraseMatcher is now
connected to a new pattern
matcher that has the same
regular expression before,
but is connected to the
right-hand side of the input.
And then we also update
an offset to be splitPos.
And we're going to need to be
able to update that information
in order to make sure that
we have a global view of what
the offset would be.
So essentially,
what we're doing is
we're updating this object, the
object for which this trySplit
method was called, to reflect
only the right-hand portion
of the input.
And then the very
last thing we do here
as we go ahead and
create a new mPhraseMatch
Spliterator passing in
the left-hand portion,
the left-hand side of the
input, while this object will
handle the right-hand portion.
So I think you'll
agree that this
is pretty darn subtle code.
But it's very powerful
and gets us a chance
to talk about all kinds
of cool Java features
like regular expressions
and character sequences
and all this kind of good stuff.
So once we've split up the work
of Shakespeare in its string
into a bunch of chunks, then
those chunks, of course,
will be thrown into
the common ForkJoinPool
And they can all
be run in parallel.
And keep in mind
that this parallelism
is in addition to the
parallelism of the input string
and phrase chunks we
already had by virtue
of being the same as the
search with parallel streams
implementation.
So now we've got parallelism
in three dimensions.